User Stories for Quarto Application
Team: Five Guys
Forrest Swift
Alex Landry
Spencer Morse
Peter Cluckey 
Austin Langley

As someone who likes bright and colorful games, I would like to be able to choose the style/color of my pieces and board, so that my board never gets boring.

As someone who plays board games offline, I would like to be able to play 2 players on the same device, so I can play with my relatives who don’t have their own tablet.

As someone who doesn’t have friends that play, I would like to have a matchmaking system, so I can play with people around the world.

As a colorblind user, I would like to have different color/indication options, so that I will be able to play with my handicap.

As a visually impaired user, I would like to have a read-aloud option, so that I can be sure I’m picking the right piece.

As a motor impaired user, I would like a click and place option, so that I am not locked out of playing by dragging mechanics I am unable to use.

As someone with tremors, I would like a click and hold option, so that when I shake I do not misclick pieces or places.

As someone who mostly plays online, I would like a chat option, so that I can make new friends while playing the game.

As a parent, I would like the option to disable chat, so that my child does not get into dangerous situations online.

As a slow player, I would like an option to save my current game, so that I can think about my turn overnight.

As a pro player, I would like an analysis system to measure the effectiveness of my turns, so that I can improve and expand on my abilities.

As a variety loving user, I would like additional games to play on the app, so that I don’t get bored of just playing quarto.

As a competitive user, I would like a ranked option, so that I can play against opponents of similar skill.

As a potential new user, I would like some sort of built in tutorial, so that I can learn the game without having to look up a guide.

As someone who wants to support the dev team, I would like an option to buy an ad free version, so I can be rewarded for my support.

As someone who uses a lot of social media, I would like an option to post screenshots of my games, so that I can share interesting moments with all my friends.

As a new player, I would like an option to practice against basic ai, so that I can slowly increase my skill.

As a puzzle lover, I would like a challenge option where the player has to decide the best move, so that I can test my knowledge of the game.

As a multitasking user, I would like a notification system that tells me when a move is made, so that I know when it is my turn to go.

As someone with low system specs, I would like a low-power/low-graphics mode, so that I can play the game without constant freezing.

As a speedrunner, I would like a timed option, so that I can ensure my games are always lightning fast.

As a completionist, I would like achievements in the game, so I can try to hunt down every trophy-worthy scenario.

As a new player, I would like to see a hint system, so as I play I learn new tips about how to play.

As a player who loves stats, I would like to see a stat page, so that I can see how many wins and losses I have.

As a variety loving player, I would like to see more mode options, so that I can play more than just basic Quarto.

As a parent, I would like to have a chat filter option, so that my child does not need to read curse words online.

As a competitive player, I would like to be able to send my opponents emotes, so they know how badly they are being beaten.

As a competitive player, I would like a live coaching option, so that professionals can help me improve my play.
