Project Description 

Group Name: Five Guys 

Team Members:  
Peter Clukey 
Alex Landry 
Forrest Swift 
Austin Langley
Spencer Morse 

App Name: 
The Quarto App 

App description: 

 An app version of the game Quarto, in which players place pieces on a four-by-four board. These  virtual pieces can have any combination of the following four qualities: 
1) tall or short pieces 
2) colored or oppositely colored pieces 
3) square or circular pieces 
4) hollow-topped or solid-topped pieces 
  This app will virtually render the following qualities, as well as allow two players to follow the basic rules of the game. The two players will take turns placing pieces until one of them places a piece such  that it completes a row of four pieces with a common quality. This could take the form of a row of four  pieces all being tall, hollow-topped, or square, etc. Like Quarto in real life, the Quarto app has a set of pieces for both players such that both players may use any of the possible pieces with no limitations on qualities for a particular player. In addition, the players cannot select their own pieces to place, it is their opponent who chooses which piece the player may place. 
  The Quarto app will allow certain variations in rules to suit the player, one of the most common  being the winning set of qualities of pieces being in a two-by-two square instead of a line of four. The app will also be user friendly: it will be very straightforward on how to play and what the user can and cannot do. A hint system and/or a tutorial feature will be made available to the user.
  Quarto doesn't have many apps based on the board game. There are some basic online websites where you are able to play against an AI or another player. A lot of these applications are very basic and do not have a very good UI system. Some are not very straightforward with telling you how to play. One way our app will stand out is informing the player what the rules are and how to play the game instead of just assuming the player has that knowledge beforehand. 
  When looking at similar apps they are all very basic and they don't offer much to the user. There are not many apps for this game because it's still a very small board game in terms of user base. When searching for Quarto on the app store will find apps that state they are no longer usable. Another way our app will stand out is with bi-yearly updates to support new operating systems or releases. 
  Another way our application will stand out is it will have the polish that these other applications lack. They do not seem to be user friendly and offer very little in terms of information about the game. The few other Quarto applications that exist seem very basic and not well laid out. Their layouts are also very outdated. When a user goes to these apps and the user interface is not visually appealing they will think of the product as lower quality. One of the biggest improvements that can make our application better then others is having a clean and easy to understand user interface. 
  An app that will be similar in style to the Quarto app is Chess.com. Their clear, simple, and easy to navigate interface will be a great source of inspiration for the Quarto app, as we want users to have an easy time navigating our application.
  A similarity between our app and others will be the ability to change the difficulty of the AI player you are facing. This feature is great for users who do not have much experience with the game. Some of these applications that could be similar to ours include apps like Chess.com’s chess app or in some ways the game pigeon checkers app. For example the chess app is the best put together. It has many resources for the user to use from tutorials to puzzles to even the rule book. These features are examples for us to use in the Quarto application. We want the player to have many resources they can use to help them learn and become better at the game so they will keep returning to play again.  
  When we look at how the game pigeon app for checkers works there are a lot of flaws with it. It is very repetitive and offers really nothing to the user except to play the game of checkers with a friend of imessage. It's very easy to get bored while using this application. Our application will differ in that we will offer several game modes for the user to choose from.
  The last app we will look at is a board game variety app that's focused on two player games to play with your friend. While this app has variety it lacks the polish of something like Chess.com because they have many games but they didn't really put the effort into a good user interface. The app seems outdated, as if designed and then never touched again. What we can learn from these other applications will help us design an app that users will be able to enjoy. These apps tell us what works and what does not work and how we should go about designing these features for our own app.
  
  To summarize, our app will stand out against the others because of:
  - Tutorials that teach new players how to play the game
  - Bi-yearly updates to ensure our app never feels outdated
  - Polished, simple, and easy to navigate UI
  - Multiple game modes
  And areas that we will pull inspiration from other apps will be:
  - Adjustable ai difficulty
  - Clean simple UI interface
  - Matchmaking

