User Stories for Quarto Application
Team: Five Guys
Forrest Swift
Alex Landry
Spencer Morse
Peter Cluckey 
Austin Langley

As someone who likes bright and colorful games, I would like to be able to choose the style/color of my pieces and board, so that my board never gets boring.
    Functionality: Piece color options
                   Board color options
                   Background color options
                   Piece reskin options
                   Board reskin options
                   Background color options

As someone who plays board games offline, I would like to be able to play 2 players on the same device, so I can play with my relatives who don’t have their own tablet.
    Functionality: Local multiplayer

As someone who doesn’t have friends that play, I would like to have a matchmaking system, so I can play with people around the world.
    Functionality: Online matchmaking

As a colorblind user, I would like to have different color/indication options, so that I will be able to play with my handicap.
    Functionality: Colorblind mode OR free recolor option

As a visually impaired user, I would like to have a read-aloud option, so that I can be sure I’m picking the right piece.
    Functionality: Read-aloud option

As a motor impaired user, I would like a click and place option, so that I am not locked out of playing by dragging mechanics I am unable to use.
    Functionality: CLick and place control style

As someone with tremors, I would like a click and hold option, so that when I shake I do not misclick pieces or places.
    Functionality: Hold for x seconds control setting

As someone who mostly plays online, I would like a chat option, so that I can make new friends while playing the game.
    Functionality: Chat

As a parent, I would like the option to disable chat, so that my child does not get into dangerous situations online.
    Functionality: Chat disable option

As a slow player, I would like an option to save my current game, so that I can think about my turn overnight.
    Functionality: Save feature

As a pro player, I would like an analysis system to measure the effectiveness of my turns, so that I can improve and expand on my abilities.
    Functionality: Move analysis

As a variety loving user, I would like multiple gameplay modes, so that I won't get bored of just one.
    Functionality: Challenge mode
                   Casual mode
                   Competitive mode
                   Vs AI mode

As a competitive user, I would like a ranked option, so that I can play against opponents of similar skill.
    Functionality: Competitive mode

As a potential new user, I would like a built in tutorial, so that I can learn the game without having to look up a guide.
    Functionality: Tutorial

As someone who wants to support the dev team, I would like an option to buy an ad free version, so I can be rewarded for my support.
    Functionality: Cash Shop

As someone who uses a lot of social media, I would like an option to post screenshots of my games, so that I can share interesting moments with all my friends.
    Functionality: Photo posting capability
                   Screenshot functionality

As a new player, I would like an option to practice against basic ai, so that I can slowly increase my skill.
    Functionality: Basic AI

As a puzzle lover, I would like an option where the player has a preset board and has to decide the best move, so that I can test my knowledge of the game.
    Functionality: Challenge mode

As a multitasking user, I would like a notification system that tells me when a move is made, so that I know when it is my turn to go.
    Functionality: Notification system
                   Audio indicators

As someone with low system specs, I would like a low-power/low-graphics mode, so that I can play the game without constant freezing.
    Functionality: Low power mode
                   Low graphics setting

As a speedrunner, I would like a timed option, so that I can ensure my games are always lightning fast.
    Functionality: Timed mode

As a completionist, I would like achievements in the game, so I can try to hunt down every trophy-worthy scenario.
    Functionality: Achievements

As a new player, I would like to see a hint system, so as I play I learn new tips about how to play.
    Functionality: Hint system
                   Turn analysis

As a player who loves stats, I would like to see a stat page, so that I can see how many wins and losses I have.
    Functionality: Statistics tracking
                   Statistics page

As a parent, I would like to have a chat filter option, so that my child does not need to read curse words online.
    Functionality: Language filter

As a competitive player, I would like to be able to send my opponents emotes, so they know how badly they are being beaten.
    Functionality: Emote communication

As a competitive player, I would like a live coaching option, so that professionals can help me improve my play.
    Functionality: Remote board viewer option
                   Live streaming option
